---
uid: CredentialManagement
---

# Introduction to credential management

## User credentials and authentication
User authentication and credential management is delegated to the external identity providers.

## Recommended use of client secrets
Client secrets, which are unique keys generated for each client credential client to connect to OSIsoft assets, resources, and services for a limited period of time, are generated by OCS. Each client can have a maximum of 10 Secrets at any given time. OSIsoft suggests following a secret rotation pattern. Secrets have a description and expiration date.
OSIsoft strongly advises against creating secrets that do not expire. 
A secret’s description should contain information about the purpose and where the secret is being used.
The secret value is created using a cryptographically secure, random number generator and is available only upon creation. OCS does not maintain the actual value of the secret. If a secret were ever lost by the client, it would have to be deleted and a new one created.
OSIsoft suggests persisting and accessing the Client Secret to/from secure storage for the environment the client application is running in. Some examples are: Azure Key Vault, Windows Credential Manager, Amazon Key Management Service, Google Cloud Key Management, etc. Microsoft provides instructions on how to handle secrets and passwords in applications. [You can read more about it here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secbp/handling-passwords). We suggest referencing security documentation from the programing language or framework you develop your applications on to determine what secret management security features they provide. Another option is to use the hardware security module on the device your application runs on, or one of the cloud key management services that are available.
OSIsoft strongly advises against storing Client Secrets in text or transferring them through an insecure channel.
Client Ids are valid GUIDs that are randomly generated, or provided by the caller upon creation. A Client Id and Client Secret pair is required to perform an authentication, for clients that have been issued a secret. The Client Id does not need to be protected the same way as a Client Secret. 

## Recommended use of secret rotation
OSIsoft advises against extending and re-using Client Secrets that are close to their expiration date. A new secret should be generated before the current secret expiration date and provided to the client. The client should have logic to start using the new secret. The expiring secret should be deleted once it has been replaced with a new secret.
